from sklearn import datasets
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
plt.style.use('ggplot')
iris = datasets.load_iris()

type(iris)

print(iris.keys())

type(iris.data)
type(iris.target)

iris.data.shape

iris.target_names

iris.target.shape

x = iris.data
y = iris.target

df = pd.DataFrame(x, columns = iris.feature_names)

print(df.head())

_ = pd.plotting.scatter_matrix(df,c=y, figsize =[8,8], s=150, marker ='D')


plt.show()

-------------------------------------------------------
Numerical EDA

In this chapter, you'll be working with a dataset obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository consisting of votes made by US House of Representatives Congressmen. Your goal will be to predict their party affiliation ('Democrat' or 'Republican') based on how they voted on certain key issues. Here, it's worth noting that we have preprocessed this dataset to deal with missing values. This is so that your focus can be directed towards understanding how to train and evaluate supervised learning models. Once you have mastered these fundamentals, you will be introduced to preprocessing techniques in Chapter 4 and have the chance to apply them there yourself - including on this very same dataset!

Before thinking about what supervised learning models you can apply to this, however, you need to perform Exploratory data analysis (EDA) in order to understand the structure of the data. For a refresher on the importance of EDA, check out the first two chapters of Statistical Thinking in Python (Part 1).

Get started with your EDA now by exploring this voting records dataset numerically. It has been pre-loaded for you into a DataFrame called df. Use pandas' .head(), .info(), and .describe() methods in the IPython Shell to explore the DataFrame.

--------------------------------------------------------

The Numerical EDA you did in the previous exercise gave you some very important information, such as the names and data types of the columns, and the dimensions of the DataFrame. Following this with some visual EDA will give you an even better understanding of the data. In the video, Hugo used the scatter_matrix() function on the Iris data for this purpose. However, you may have noticed in the previous exercise that all the features in this dataset are binary; that is, they are either 0 or 1. So a different type of plot would be more useful here, such as Seaborn's countplot.

Given on the right is a countplot of the 'education' bill, generated from the following code:

plt.figure()
sns.countplot(x='education', hue='party', data=df, palette='RdBu')
plt.xticks([0,1], ['No', 'Yes'])
plt.show()

In sns.countplot(), we specify the x-axis data to be 'education', and hue to be 'party'. Recall that 'party' is also our target variable. So the resulting plot shows the difference in voting behavior between the two parties for the 'education' bill, with each party colored differently. We manually specified the color to be 'RdBu', as the Republican party has been traditionally associated with red, and the Democratic party with blue.

It seems like Democrats voted resoundingly against this bill, compared to Republicans. This is the kind of information that our machine learning model will seek to learn when we try to predict party affiliation solely based on voting behavior. An expert in U.S politics may be able to predict this without machine learning, but probably not instantaneously - and certainly not if we are dealing with hundreds of samples!

In the IPython Shell, explore the voting behavior further by generating countplots for the 'satellite' and 'missile' bills, and answer the following question: Of these two bills, for which ones do Democrats vote resoundingly in favor of, compared to Republicans? Be sure to begin your plotting statements for each figure with plt.figure() so that a new figure will be set up. Otherwise, your plots will be overlayed onto the same figure.

Both 'satellite' and 'missile'.

-------------------------------------------------------

from sklearn.neighbors import KNeighborsClassifier
knn = KNeighborsClassifier(n_neighbors=6)
knn.fit(iris['data'],iris['target'])
KneighborsClassifier(algorithm='auto', leaf_size=30,metric='minkowski', metric_params=None, n_jobs=1,n_neighbors=6, p=2, weights='uniform')
iris['data'].shape
iris['target'].shape

prediction = knn.predict(X_new)
X_new.shape
print('Prediction{}'.format(prediction))

------------------------------------------------------

k-Nearest Neighbors: Fit
Having explored the Congressional voting records dataset, it is time now to build your first classifier. In this exercise, you will fit a k-Nearest Neighbors classifier to the voting dataset, which has once again been pre-loaded for you into a DataFrame df.

In the video, Hugo discussed the importance of ensuring your data adheres to the format required by the scikit-learn API. The features need to be in an array where each column is a feature and each row a different observation or data point - in this case, a Congressman's voting record. The target needs to be a single column with the same number of observations as the feature data. We have done this for you in this exercise. Notice we named the feature array X and response variable y: This is in accordance with the common scikit-learn practice.

Your job is to create an instance of a k-NN classifier with 6 neighbors (by specifying the n_neighbors parameter) and then fit it to the data. The data has been pre-loaded into a DataFrame called df.


    Import KNeighborsClassifier from sklearn.neighbors.
    Create arrays X and y for the features and the target variable. Here this has been done for you. Note the use of .drop() to drop the target variable 'party' from the feature array X as well as the use of the .values attribute to ensure X and y are NumPy arrays. Without using .values, X and y are a DataFrame and Series respectively; the scikit-learn API will accept them in this form also as long as they are of the right shape.
    Instantiate a KNeighborsClassifier called knn with 6 neighbors by specifying the n_neighbors parameter.
    Fit the classifier to the data using the .fit() method.
----------------------------------------------------------------

k-Nearest Neighbors: Predict

Having fit a k-NN classifier, you can now use it to predict the label of a new data point. However, there is no unlabeled data available since all of it was used to fit the model! You can still use the .predict() method on the X that was used to fit the model, but it is not a good indicator of the model's ability to generalize to new, unseen data.

In the next video, Hugo will discuss a solution to this problem. For now, a random unlabeled data point has been generated and is available to you as X_new. You will use your classifier to predict the label for this new data point, as well as on the training data X that the model has already seen. Using .predict() on X_new will generate 1 prediction, while using it on X will generate 435 predictions: 1 for each sample.

The DataFrame has been pre-loaded as df. This time, you will create the feature array X and target variable array y yourself.

